hey I'm Bobby I like to make stuff today
we're going to make an advent calendar
powered by an arduino in our house we
love Christmas and one of the ways that
we plan on celebrating this year is to
use an advent calendar advent calendars
are anything with 25 in this case lights
that you just check off one day at a
time working up to Christmas and in this
case we're just gonna be turning one
light on each day and then the last day
is the star
alright let's make this thing I had a
beautiful piece of walnut that was one
inch thick but not big enough for my
project so i resided in half on the
bandsaw Iran one side of both of these
pieces through the table saw to get one
clean edge for a glue up then i just
added some glue and lay these pieces in
the clamps i press down on both of these
pieces to push them against the bar
clamps to try to keep them as flat as
possible
they were perfect but it was pretty good
after it dried I took them out of the
clamps and then put together this
template that i made an illustrator but
before I added the template i tried to
flatten out these pieces using a hand
plane I ran into a little issue here and
i want to explain it just because it
might help you guys if you make
something like this i don't have a
resource blade on my bandsaw I thought
what I had would work but the fact of
the matter is the blade bent a little
bit while I was pushing the peace
through because it's not the correct
kind of blade because of that the cuts
on this wood or not straight they have a
little bow in the middle of them
originally I didn't think that was going
to be a big deal i would just send them
through the planer to flatten them out
but the thickness of this wood is
smaller than what my planner can plane
so unfortunately I can't crank the
planar down to actually flatten this
piece if I had a drum sander I could
send it through there and that would
flatten it out but I don't have 1i tried
to use a hand plane to get it as flat as
possible
that's not really working so i'm just
gonna have to go with some cup on these
pieces is really not a huge deal this is
just a quick decoration but if you were
going to try to do this to make
furniture out of you definitely want to
get the correct blade and make sure you
have another way to flatten these boards
spray the light coat of spray adhesive
on the back of the template and then put
it on the piece of wood in the corner to
try to save as much of the rest of the
wood as I could I ran it through the
bandsaw and try to cut as close as i
could to all the lines follow the same
process for the star but I used maple
instead
I could have a smaller chunk but also
had to resell this piece to get it about
the same thickness as the walnut then I
put on the star template and cut it out
i drilled out all the holes in the
template using the drill press
if you had a CNC this would be a good
place to use it but i know not everyone
has access to one for the most part the
template peeled right off but what
didn't come off came off when i sanded
all the pieces while I'm doing that I
want to tell you about the sponsor for
this video Casper you've heard me talk
about them a million times because they
are awesome three-story actually went on
vacation recently slept on a different
bed in my neck hurt my back hurt it was
awful i came back and slept on my Casper
for one night and I was all good
they're a combination of memory in latex
foam so they're perfectly squishy and
perfectly bouncy you can even try it out
in your house for a hundred knights and
if you don't like it for any reason they
will give you your money back and come
take away so there's no real risk to try
them out so you should definitely give
it a shot
go to Casper calm / make use the code
make and you get fifty dollars off your
first mattress i use another piece of
maple to make a stand for the tree i
trace the outside of the trunk and
figured out the area that needed to be
hollowed out so the tree could set down
in it using the drill press a drill
three holes to remove most of material i
used a utility knife to break the green
around where i wanted to chisel out and
then just choose about the remaining
area also chiseled a slight bevel on the
bottom of the trunk so that I could
force it down into the opening without
using any glue this will make it easier
to store
i sanded it and then did a test fit and
it was nice and snug I you see a glue to
glue on the star just to save some time
and then put in the leds use hot glue to
hold these in place if it comes loose
you can always hot glue or CA glue them
back in place in the future and some
extra wire at the top so i just turned
it off then it was time to hook up the
arduino and the button got the
electronics marked up here and i just
want to show you what's here because
there's really not much have a button
and every time you click it just adds
one to a number which is going to be our
day counter that is attached to one pin
on this pro Trickett which is a small
inexpensive arduino-compatible board
from Adafruit also got a 5 volt power
supply that's gonna run in and power the
whole thing and then the LED strip just
plugs into a couple of other pins
that's all there is to it now
have to wire the step up and mounted on
the back i cut a small piece of perf
board and then soldered on some female
header pins to make a socket for this
Arduino that way it's not permanent
i soldered on all of these pins and then
just added the electronics in a
permanent position just like I had them
on the breadboard i plugged in the
trinket and it was ready to go
I wanted to hide the wire that was
coming from the power adapter so I
drilled a hole in the base so the wire
could feed all the way underneath to
have a go out the back side is to file
to make a little groove that it would
fit in you could get really clever with
where you put the button for this thing
but I just hot glued it right out of
sight on the back so you can reach up
around it to click it
the last thing was to add several coats
of spray lacquer to this which makes
walnut look beautiful
other than the little bit of bow and the
wood that i mentioned earlier i'm really
happy with how this thing turned out the
cool thing about using RGB LEDs like
this is that you can program them to do
anything you want
I've got a little bit of a flicker color
change going on between them and the top
one is pure white but you could set them
to any color that you want you could
have them animate in any way that you
want you have a lot of options i will
say that the leds that I used in this
case are kind of expensive for this
particular application i already had
them that I was going to use for another
project and I just decided to use them
here instead but there are much cheaper
options to use in a case like this and
if you get some LEDs that don't have a
diffuser on them like these do you can
just put a little bit of hot glue on top
of the LED and it'll work about the same
i hope you liked this project let me
know what you think about it down in the
comments and whether you celebrate
Christmas or another holiday i hope you
have a wonderful holiday season enjoy
your time with your friends and family
and be safe
that's it for this one guys thanks for
watching I'll see you next time